Peter I'd like to move on now and talk
about this peculiar paradox we're seeing
in the money supply the m ZM m three
figures continue to plunge at an
alarming rate some see this as
deflationary at least in the near term
you know clearly banks lenders they're
nervous they're holding on to record
reserve levels hesitant to lend do you
see this theme persisting and what will
be the geo economic ramifications well
they got my side even reporting in free
so I'm not your innocence innocence em
but yeah but you know money supply is
shrinking now you know you're talking
about short-term the movement so we
don't know this is the annual rate of
change I mean it's the one that most
economists are watching so yeah so the
annual rate of change is now the Quan
compared to what it was six months or a
year ago exactly yeah I mean so I don't
think that's going to continue because I
think I think the government is going to
continue increasing money supply me
that's even look at look at the deficits
that they have to monetize look at
either look at what's going on they're
going to keep creating money they're
lending to the government their lending
I mean the government is borrowing a
tremendous amount of money the budget
deficit is one and a half trillion
dollars and of course every year you
know trillions of dollars of government
debt matures and as it matures if the
current holders don't want it then the
banks or somebody has to pick up the
slack so that is where all the money is
going I think the money is being is
going to the government that might
otherwise have been loaned out to
businesses but you know banks are still
lending I mean they're not the money
isn't sitting there you know in in a
vault let's move on to geopolitical
concerns you know the sovereign debt
troubles in Greece Portugal Spain
clearly the euro has been under some
pressure in fact gold has broken out
really in Euro terms dollars gold
remains a bit range-bound do you expect
gold to reach new highs in the next
couple of months oh absolutely I mean
whether it does a next couple of months
or not I mean it's always hard to time
the market but I think gold looks like
it wants to move a lot higher and I
expected to it's been very strong
recently in other currencies it's made
new eyes in terms of British pounds it's
made July's in the euro so I think new
highs and the dollar are not too far off
given all the inflation is being created
and you know given the fact that
creditors are starting to pay attention
to sovereign credit and the risks of
default or inflation you're seeing that
now with grease and and what's happening
with the euro as a result of the Greek
situation worries about other countries
in Europe that have a lot of debt
whether it's Portugal Spain Ireland or
maybe Italy and then you know you look
at the worries about the UK else on the
panel has been under a lot of pressure
they've got all the dead people are
worrying you know it's not going to be
long before you know they start worrying
about the United States because we are
the biggest offenders here and as far as
you know we've raised deficit spending
to an entirely new stratosphere many
pundits have been bearish on stocks
commodities over the past year so but
markets seem to be able to remain
irrational longer than shorts can stay
solvent what is your position on the
major investment asset classes such as
stocks commodities I mean you know I've
been long you know stops for ten years
and that was a problem in 2008 of course
you know stocks went down around the
world but 2009 was a fantastic here to
be long stocks particularly foreign
stocks emerging markets commodities and
my inclination is that is going to be
the long-term trend I mean certainly
stocks are going to have periods of time
where they're falling in terms of
currencies but in general if you buy
good companies and good businesses there
is real value their businesses are
producing products they are earning
revenues they own real tangible assets
whether it's property equipment so
there's something real there as opposed
to paper which is nothing right I mean
it's not backed by gold any more of the
dollar or the euro or the end they're
just pieces of paper and governments
create if you don't want to be an asset
than the alternative is to be in paper
and I just think over time paper is
going to lose a lot of value especially
since they're creating so much of it and
that it intrinsically has no value so
you know I like owning stocks rather
than cash or bonds now you can say well
what about gold I mean does it make
sense to own gold or socks and my answer
has been to own both I don't
no for sure whether having gold is going
to be better than having portfolio
stocks or over the next 10 years I could
be that gold does better than easy even
steven Chinese stocks but I have a
feeling that over the long run you make
more money owning productive assets that
are growing in value than simply owning
metal you know a piece of gold that just
sits there that if I can own a business
in a country like China that is really
growing rapidly and investing in the
population is getting wealthier that all
the value added by the entrepreneurs and
their growing business and the dividends
that I'm earning all those stocks that
over the long run that that's a better
way to accumulate real wealth and simply
you know holding goal to try to preserve
your wealth but I'm sure you'd agree
though the precious metals are the best
insurance policy I recommended everybody
owns precious belt I don't think it
makes sense to not on precious metals
just depends on the person i mean i
think i still have close to fifty
percent or maybe more than verse I don't
you know keep the value of my own net
worth in gold mining stocks and and
precious metals the rest of it is is
mainly in in stocks that are not vote
not mining stocks I mean I I don't have
that much in the way of cash I keep some
cash lying around but people have to
make decisions on their own you know
what percentage they want to hold I mean
whether it's you know ten percent gold
fifty percent gold you know 100 you know
people have to decide what would axe
admiss they're comfortable with how much
risk and they tolerate now certainly
having stocks in 2008 a lot of people
might not have had the stomach for it I
mean especially if you had all stocks I
mean if you only had a small percentage
of socks it probably wasn't that big a
deal to watch your portfolio with down
fifty percent but you know people who
are very confident in in a long term I
mean you know I saw one of my stocks get
clobbered in 2018 clearly my goals box
got hammered as MIT you know gold stocks
in three months in 2008 the gold index
was down seventy percent yeah and of
course it's recouped almost all those
all those losses by in 2009 but
a lot of people got scared when they saw
those losses people who are waiting for
rebounds and some of these internet
stocks right they've been waiting ten
years at are still you know they're
never going to rebound there's nothing
to rebound